.TH PS2EMU-RECORD 1 "ps2emu-record __version__"
.SH NAME
ps2emu-record \- an application to record a PS/2 device for later playback
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ps2emu-record \fR[\fIoptions\fR] <\fIoutput_file\fR>
.
.\"*****************************************************************************
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
\fBps2emu-record\fR is an application for recording all of the data going in and
out of a PS/2 device, so that it may later be replayed as a virtual device on
another person's system. The purpose of this tool is mainly to allow developers
to fix bugs on a device that need to be traced down to the PS/2 level, without
the developers having to actually have the physical device in front of them.
Logs created with \fBps2emu-record\fR can be replayed with the \fBps2emu\fR
kernel module in combination with the \fBps2emu-replay\fR program.
.
.\"*****************************************************************************
.SH OPTIONS
.
.SS
.TP
.BR \-h\fR,\ \fB\-\-help
Print a summary of command line options, and quit.
.TP
.BR \-V\fR,\ \fB\-\-version
Print the version of ps2emu-record, and quit.
.TP
.BR \-t\fR,\ \fB\-\-target\fR=<\fIKBD\fR|\fIAUX\fR>
Set the target port to record. This is either \fIKBD\fR, or \fIAUX\fR. \fIKBD\fR
is usually the port where the keyboard attached, and \fIAUX\fR is usually the
port where everything else (including mice and touchpads). If you need to record
the keyboard, please read the \fBSECURITY\fR section of this man page first.
.
.\"*****************************************************************************
.SH SECURITY
.
Because \fBps2emu-record\fR records all of the PS/2 data coming in and out of a
device, this means that it can also log all of the keypresses going through a
keyboard. For this reason, recording the keyboard is turned off by default and
must be explicitly enabled by the user. Care should still be taken not to type
passwords or sensitive information while \fBps2emu-record\fR is running however,
due to the fact that ps2emu-record relies on the i8042 debugging option that
dumps all of the PS/2 data to the kernel log, in order to read the PS/2 data
going in and out of a device. As such, even when \fBps2emu-record\fR is not
recording the keyboard, data coming in and out of the keyboard is still being
printed to the kernel log (although it is actively being ignored by the
recorder). This debugging information is turned off when \fBps2emu-record\fR
finishes, so it is safe to type sensitive information once you have ended
\fBps2emu-record\fR.
.\"*****************************************************************************
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR ps2emu-replay (1)
.\" vim: set ft=groff :
